= Scrobbler2

Scrobbler2 is a wrapper for the Last.fm web services (http://www.last.fm/api), inspired by Jnunemaker's Original Scrobbler Gem (http://github.com/jnunemaker/scrobbler).

== Installation

Install via ruby-gems
  sudo gem install gingerhendrix-scrobbler2 --source http://gems.github.com

== Requirements

Scrobbler2 requires 
* HTTParty (http://github.com/jnunemaker/httparty) 
* ActiveSupport (http://rubyforge.org/projects/activesupport/).

= Usage

== API Key

All last.fm requests require an API Key. Register for an API key at http://www.last.fm/api

  Scrobbler2::Base.api_key = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz123456"

== Authentication

Some requests (eg. write requests) require authentication.  Authenticated request require an api secret (provided with your api key) and a session key.  

  Scrobbler2::Base.api_secret = "9876543210zyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfe"
  Scrobbler2::Base.session_key = "qwertyuioplkjhgfdsamnbvcxz"

=== Obtaining a session key

scrobbler2 currently supports last.fm's desktop authentication protocol.  In this process
1. The app requests a authentication token
2. The app sends the user to a last.fm authentication page
3. The user agrees to allow the the app acess to their data.
4. The app requests a session key. 
5. The app makes an authenticated request with the session key.

    auth = Scrobbler2::Auth.new
    token = auth.token
    puts "Auth Token #{token} \n" 
    token.should_not be_nil
    puts "Now go to #{auth.url} and authorise\n"

    gets #Wait for enter
    
    session = auth.session
    puts "Session: #{session.inspect} \n"
    session.should be_kind_of(Hash)
    session['key'].should_not be_nil  
    
    Scrobbler2::Base.session_key = session['key']
  	user = Scrobbler2::User.new(username)
  	user.info
  
== Users

	username = 'gingerhendrix'
	user = Scrobbler2::User.new(username)

	puts "#{username}'s Recent Tracks"
	puts "=" * (username.length + 16)
	user.recent_tracks["track"].each { |t| puts t["name"] }

	puts
	puts

	puts "#{username}'s Top Tracks"
	puts "=" * (username.length + 13)
	user.top_tracks["track"].each { |t| puts "(#{t["playcount"]} plays) #{t["name"]}" }
	
== Albums
	
	album = Scrobbler2::Album.new('Carrie Underwood', 'Some Hearts')

	puts "Album: #{album.info["name"]}"
	puts "Artist: #{album.info["artist"]}"
	puts "Listeners: #{album.info["listeners"]}"
	puts "URL: #{album.info["url"]}"
	puts "Release Date: #{album.info["releasedate"]}"

	puts
	puts

	puts "Album Tags"
	longest_tag_name = album.info["toptags"]["tag"].collect {|t| t["name"] }.sort {|x, y| y.length <=> x.length }.first.length
	puts "=" * longest_tag_name
	album.info["toptags"]["tag"].each { |t| puts t["name"] }
	
== Artists
	
	artist = Scrobbler2::Artist.new('Carrie Underwood')

	puts 'Top Tracks'
	puts "=" * 10
	artist.top_tracks["track"].each { |t| puts "(#{t["playcount"]} plays) #{t["name"]}" }

	puts

	puts 'Similar Artists'
	puts "=" * 15
	artist.info["similar"]["artist"].each { |a| puts "#{a["name"]}" }
	
== Tags	
	
	tag = Scrobbler2::Tag.new('country')

	puts 'Top Albums'
	tag.top_albums["album"].each { |a| puts "(#{a["tagcount"]} tags) '#{a["name"]}' by #{a["artist"]["name"]}" }

	puts

	puts 'Top Tracks'
	tag.top_tracks.each { |t| puts "(#{t["tagcount"]} tags) '#{t["name"]}' by #{t["artist"]["name"]}" }
	
== Tracks
	
	track = Scrobbler2::Track.new('Carrie Underwood', 'Before He Cheats')
	puts 'Fans'
	puts "=" * 4
	puts track.info["listeners"]

= Development

Scrobbler2 is still in development.  If you want to help out please feel free to fork the project on github (http://github.com/gingerhendrix/scrobbler2).

== Build and install
The scrobbler2 gem can be built and installed via rake.
  
  rake build    # builds the gem (in pkg/)
  rake install  # builds and installs the gem (using sudo gem install)
  
== Tests

Scrobbler2 has unit and acceptance tests written using RSpec.  The tests can be run using rake.

  rake test:unit        # runs the unit tests
  rake test:acceptance  # runs the acceptance tests

The acceptance tests run against the live last.fm api.  You will need to set the api_key and authentication parameters in test/acceptance/test_helper.rb before 
running these tests.  You can obtain a session key by running the auth_test, this test is not invoked with the rest of the acceptance suite.
  
  ruby test/acceptance/auth/auth_test.rb

== Internals

Scrobbler2 api methods use a simple set of macros to implement the api.  All the hard work goes on in Scrobbler2::Base.
  
== TODO

* Write requests.
* Submissions
* Radio API
	  
